---
id: project-invite-membership
title: Project Invites and Membership
---

Project collaborators can be added by the project `owner` through the project
invite flow. The invite flow requires the user's email address to be entered and
doesn't depend on the user having an Ory Cloud account. Ory Cloud will send them
an invite link via the entered email, notifying them of the project they are
invited to as well as who has invited them (your email as the project owner).

## Invite user

### Without an Ory Cloud account

Ory Cloud supports inviting user's without an Ory Cloud account, however, some
conditions need to be met. Once the user follows the invite link, they will be
required to register an account. The email entered upon registration has to
match the email specified in the invite, if they don't match, the user will need
to change their email through the settings flow or recreate an account. The
invite also has to still be valid, this means the invite shouldn't have expired
or been used.

### With Ory Cloud account

The user can simply click on the link, sign in and accept the invite. Of course
with the condition that the link is still valid.

## Permissions

Only project `owners` can invite more members to a project. Any invited member
will automatically have the `developer` role assigned, thus preventing any new
member from removing members or adding new ones.

## Project Member Seats

Each project, depending on the plan, has a set number of seats associated with
it. The number of seats are used up by `pending` and `accepted` invites. Once
the invite state changes to `expired`, `removed`, `declined` and `cancelled` the
seat is freed up again. The reason for `pending` invites to take up seats are to
prevent users from using up the seats on a first-come, first-served basis,
leading to more invites sent than member slot availability.

There are two ways to free up member seats:

- Remove a member from the project will result in a `removed` status.
- Cancel a `pending` invite will result in a `cancelled` status.

## Invite State and Validity

The invite can have many states, namely:

- pending
- accepted
- declined
- expired
- removed
- cancelled

The state of the invite can only change in certain ways depending on the actions
of the subject (invited user), the actor (project owner) and the system. In the
below state diagram the invite state starts out at `pending` and then goes on to
be either `accepted`, `declined`, `expired` or `cancelled`. Only the subject can
`accept` and `decline` the invite, while the actor can `cancel`, `remove` and
`delete` an invite. The system can `expire` an invite.

[![](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNqN0s1OxCAQB_BXIXM024vHHjzpE3i0HmZhumL4aKZDs2az7y6Usmo0sT0Q8uc3MKFcQEdD0MMsKPRo8cTou-VeDUHl7-XuVXXdg7JhsUI1q_M1nigYG06qVzEozYTFVNWWCkOtaRIy1c3p-E5atvS3NqSdDXs1nSfLK8ZRiBUqTSxogzKJUWz8ox-NQZNz7QjUEnkLK67jrZHalSP5WVGjalsbO-jX6Tswk4_L_7Ti2z0X3Sq_6TUql-DJ05G41MEBPLFHa_IjuJR9BpC3vD5An6eGRkxOBhjCNdM0mfyPn4zN20E_opvpAJgkPn8EDb1wooa2t7Sp6ydFEswT)](https://mermaid.live/edit/#pako:eNqN0s1OxCAQB_BXIXM024vHHjzpE3i0HmZhumL4aKZDs2az7y6Usmo0sT0Q8uc3MKFcQEdD0MMsKPRo8cTou-VeDUHl7-XuVXXdg7JhsUI1q_M1nigYG06qVzEozYTFVNWWCkOtaRIy1c3p-E5atvS3NqSdDXs1nSfLK8ZRiBUqTSxogzKJUWz8ox-NQZNz7QjUEnkLK67jrZHalSP5WVGjalsbO-jX6Tswk4_L_7Ti2z0X3Sq_6TUql-DJ05G41MEBPLFHa_IjuJR9BpC3vD5An6eGRkxOBhjCNdM0mfyPn4zN20E_opvpAJgkPn8EDb1wooa2t7Sp6ydFEswT)

The link is only valid if it has no user account linked to it and hasn't
expired. Once the link has been successfully linked to the user account, the
invite will appear in the user's notification panel. Here the user can manage
their invites.

Once an invite has been removed by the project owner, the invite will also be
removed for the invited user.

:::note

Invite Links expire after 6 hours and can only be used once.

:::

:::warning

Deleting an invite is irreversible

:::
