---
id: terminology
title: Terminology
---

# Terminology

An overview of the terminology used in the Ory Cloud documentation.  
If you think a term is missing here, please
[let us know](https://github.com/ory/docs/issues/new).

## Ory Cloud Terms

#### Ory Cloud Project

A single deployment of Ory Cloud. Each project runs its own copy of the Ory
services. Learn more about [Ory Cloud Projects](./project.mdx).

#### Ory Cloud Project Settings

The configuration for each individual Ory Project Cloud can be changed in the
Ory Project Settings.

#### Ory Cloud Console

The graphical user interface that can be used to administer and manage Ory Cloud
Projects. You can it at [https://console.ory.sh/](https://console.ory.sh/).

#### Ory SDK URL

The environmental variable `ORY_SDK_URL` specifies where the Ory instance is
available. It can be found in the "API & Services" section of your Ory Cloud
Console.

#### Identity Schema

The JSON Schema that defines an identity in an Ory Cloud Project. Learn more
about [Identity Schemas](./identity.mdx).

#### Ory Login Session

A cookie or token that is stored in the users' Browser or API Client. It
represents a successful Login Flow and lets the user access the authenticated
identity.

#### Ory Project Slug

A generic identifier for each Ory Cloud project. It has the format
`adjective-name-randomstring` e.g.: `suspicious-curran-y23rz7k2t`.

#### Ory Project Public API

The Ory Kratos endpoint for accessing your project's public API, it is composed
like so: `https://$ORY_PROJECT_SLUG/api/kratos/public`.

#### Ory Project Admin API

The Ory Kratos endpoint for accessing your project's administrative API, it is
composed like so: `https://$ORY_PROJECT_SLUG/api/kratos/admin`.

## Basics

#### End-User

The person who actually uses a Web-App, SPA, or mobile App that uses Ory Cloud.

#### Identity

The "who" of the application. This can be an employee, customer, external
developer, or a programmatic identity like an IoT device, application, or
another kind of machine actor. Other often used aliases include "user",
"account", or "user account".

#### Self-services

Interfaces and flows in the Ory Cloud that allow end-users to consume services
without the direct involvement of service employees. A common example would be
when someone signs up for a service without interacting directly to support.

#### Browser Client

End-user side. A browser client refers to the Web browser in the user's machine
or mobile device.

#### API Client

End-user side. A browser client refers to the Web browser in the user's machine
or mobile device.

#### Web App

A web application is a server-side application that renders HTML; often written
in PHP, Java, Go, ExpressJS, etc... Also called "server-side browser client",
since most of the application logic is performed on the server-side.

#### Single Page Application

A Single Page Application (or SPA) is a web application that dynamically
rewrites the current web page with new data; often written in React, Angular,
Next, etc... Also called "client-side browser client", since most of the
application logic is performed in the end-users browser, so on the client-side.

#### Native App

A native application is built for a specific device platform e.g. iOs, Android,
Windows, smartTV, etc. Also called "client without browser", since the end-user
does not use a browser directly, all flows go directly through the native app
UI.

## Self-Service Flows

#### Registration Flow

The path that a user has to take in order to create an identity at your
application.

#### Login Flow

The path that a user has to take in order to authenticate (i.e. prove they are a
certain identity) at your application.

#### Recovery Flow

The path that a user has to take in order to recover access to their account,
e.g. through a verified email or other means.
